GUISDAP 8.6

This release of guisdap contains several new features and bugfixes, but
everything is made compatible with older versions (hopefully). The package
should be compatible with Matlab versions higher then 6.5, but there may (or
may not) be some problems on specific platforms.

Install

Guisdap-8.6 has been succesfully installed on Solaris and linux, and the
makefiles are written for those systems. Other architectures may have to change
the makefiles, if you want speed, othervise it should run without the compiled
routines. On Windows systems it is recommended to run under the cygwin
environment for best compabilitiy. Please report any changes needed for other
systems.

untar the distribution at your favourite place
cd into the guisdap directory
if you want the speed improvements the mex utility provides:
 make "lib" and "mex7" (or "mex6") directories
 cd models/iri2007
 "make" (should be gnu-make)
 cd ../nrlmsise00
 "make"
 cd ../onera
 make OS=... ENV=... all
 cd ../../mexsources
 "make"

make a link of bin/guisdap to a place on your path (ex /usr/local/bin)

Provided is a searchpath to ~/gup/mygup where your personal and edited
distribution files should go.

Running

At the prompt, type "guisdap --help" to see all the switches available. Normal
analysis is done running "guisdap -a" which will bring up a window with some
entries to fill in. (Hopefully selfexplained) This is the same as "guisdap" and
then "analyse". When finished hit "GO". A more detailed instruction can be found
at http://www.eiscat.se:8080/raw/GUISDAP/doc/howto.html.

There is also a course presentation describing how to initialise new experiments
and some useful tips on more specialised analysis. The initialisation scripts
are avaiable with "guisdap -i".

New features

* Vector velocity extractions have been added. One specifies 'volumes' in UT
  time, invariant latitude and altitude, for the supplied data. The data can be
  mono-, bi-, or multistatic. All individual ion velocity measurements within
  this volume together with possible constraints on vertical or field aligned
  velocities are used to derive full vectors. The vector is in geographic
  orientation, but since the full covariance matrix is calculated, it can be
  easily be correctly rotated into geomagnetic coordinates. A wrapper,
  velocity_wrapper.m, contains velocity setups for different CP combinations.
* There has been a need for getting spectra from the lag profiles most
  experiments contain. Previosly there have been the inversion possiblity from
  lagprofiles to spectra taking care of the receiver and transmitter effects.
  However, the inversion needs careful adjustment at the desired height to
  produce a good spectrum. Now, also a forward method have been added, like
  the RTG displays, but more accurate. This can be enabled by the boolean
  display_spectra.
* A number of new experiments have been added, different site versions of beata
  and folke. Some of the beata experiments contain time slices of short lags to
  be used as high resolution profiles. To analyse profiles like this, a
  parameter have been added, analyse_pponly, to separate spectra and power
  analysis.
* For demanding experiments like tau7 and tau8, with relatively high sampling
  rates, and producing many lags, the analysis can be speeded up by gating the
  lagprofiles before fitting. This is controlled with analyse_gating, to be set
  to either 1 or 2 for different gating strategy. The normal case would be 2.
* Numerous hidden improvements and refinements

  - Allow adjustment of polynomial length in calib_ne
  - Move plasma defs to exps dir
  - added analysis_sweep wrapper
  - Enable other plfreqs
  - Give NaN to shorten arrays in minput
  - Read errors also from madrigal for vel calcs
  - Spear gate
  - Added a genereric lpg_rep to repete several blocks
  - Updates for eiscat3d tau8
  - Added max_ppw parameter
  - Decimated offppd estimate
  - Allow for amp mod codes in radar_eq
  - Make zoomed web plots more default
  - 2008b needs jvm, allow overrides in scan setups
  - ...

Further information can be found at www.eiscat.se.

Ingemar Häggström.
